All right.
So let's talk about traversing trees.
Now there are four ways you can traverse the tree one isn't used very often and the other three are.
So the first way which isn't used very often is called a level traversal.
And what we do is we visit nodes on each level in order starting from the top.
So we'd visit the root cause that's at level 0 and then we visit the notes at level 1 going from left
to right and then we'd visit the nodes that level to from left to right etc. until we visited all the
nodes in the tree.
The second way is called pre order and with PRE ORDER we always visit the root of every sub tree first.
And so we're going to visit the root and then we're going to visit the root of the left subtree and
the root of it's left subtree etc. and until we get down to the first leaf and then we visit the leaves
of each tree working back up the tree.
Don't worry I'm going to show you an example of this in a minute with post order Trover So we do the
opposite.
We visit the root last.
And so instead of starting at the root we travel all the way down to the tree to the first leaf and
that's where we'd start our traversal.
And then there is in order traversal and that means that we visit the left child first and then we visit
the root and then we visit the right child.
So this is one case where pictures will hopefully make this clear so let's go to the next slide and
we're going to look at the level traversal here.
And for the level traversal we start at level 0 and then we moved to level 1 and we moved from left
to right and then we go to level two and we moved from left to right and we go to three and we went
from left to right.
So we'd visit 25 then 20 and 27 then 15 20 to 26 and 30 and then 29 and 32.
So that's a level order traversal it's not used very often.
So now we have preordain with the preorder we always visit the root of a subtree first and so we're
going to start at 25 and then we're going to go to 20 and then we go to 15 15 doesn't have any children.
And so we go back up to the root which we've already visited and we visit 22.
So the order so far is 25 20 15 22 and then we go back up we visit 27 and then 26 we go back to the
route and visit 30 and then 29 and then 32.
So each time we look at a node we visit the node before we look at its children.
So we visited 25 before we looked at 20.
We visited 20 before we looked at 15 and 22 and then we visited 27.
Before we looked at 26 and 30 and we visited 30 before 29 and 32 so that's pre order pre meaning the
route is done first.
OK so then in order traverse so we completely visit the left side and then we visit the root and then
we completely visit the right side.
And so we don't start with 25.
We don't start with 20.
We start with 15 because that's the left side 15 doesn't have any children so at that point we move
up to the root and visit 20.
Then we visit the right side which is just 22 and then we have finished with the complete left side
for the root.
And so now we visit the root.
And now we do the same thing on the right side.
We want to visit the left side first then the roots and then the right side and so we don't visit 27
yet because it has 26 on the left.
So we visit 26.
Then we move up to the 27 because now we can visit the root for this subtree.
And now we wanted to do the same thing with the right and so we don't visit 30 yet because 30 has a
left child.
And so we visit 29 then we visit the route and then we visit 32.
So within order it's always do the entire left side then the route then the entire right side for every
node.
And so it's 15 20 22 25 26 because we need to do the left side first 27 29 because we did the left side
first 30 and 32.
Now it if noticed something here.
The data is sorted 15 20 22 25 26 27 29 30 and 32 and that's why it's called in order.
And so because of the characteristics of a binary search tree if we do and in order to traverse all
the data is sorted and so it's really easy to get the sorted data.
Once you've inserted them into a binary search tree you just have to do an in order traversal of the
tree if you want to sort an array for example you could insert the values into a binary search tree
and then traverse the tree.
And that would actually be faster than some of the sort algorithms we looked at.
And so that's in order for every node you visit the entire left subtree first then you visit the node
and then you visit the entire right subtree.
And finally we have post order.
We had preorder back here where we visited the route first or the node and then they left and then the
right in post order the route goes last.
And so you visit the entire left subtree for a node and then the entire right subtree for the node.
And finally you hit the node.
And so we're going to start here at 15 because we have to visit the entire left subtree and right subtree
for the route first and then we have to visit the left or right subtree for twenty three yet 15 and
then 22 because we do the subtrees before the node and then 20 and then we have to do the entire right
subtree before we do the route so we're going to go 26 and then we've got to do the entire right subtree
for 27 first and then the the entire left and right for 30 so we're going to go to 29 32.
Now we can do the routes 30 27 and 25.
So in pre order you visit the route first or the node.
So if we have the concept of a current node you're going to visit the current node first and then it's
entire left subtree and then it's entire right subtree.
And so we visit 25 and then we're going to do it's entire left subtree and right subtree so we've has
at 20.
And then we're going to do it's entire left subtree its entire right subtree.
And so we get 25 20 15 and 22 and then we did the same thing on the right side.
We do 27 and then we do it's left subtree 26 and then it's right subtrees So beginning to 30 it's left
subtree and then it's right subtree that's preorder the route goes first in order it's left route right.
And so when we're talking about routes we're talking about the root of every subtree and in post order
it's left right route.
And so in this case we do 15 go to the right 22 and then we do 20 and then we don't do the route yet
because the route goes last so we've come here 27 is going to go last so 26 and then we go to the right
30 is going to go last 29 32 and then we can start going back up 30 27 25.
And so those are the four ways that we can traverse trees level preorder in order and post order.
And so let's go back to inteligente now.
We're going to write a method to do the in order traversal of our tree.
And so here I am back in intelligence.
And I'm going to go to the tree node class because as we saw in the slides each node can be a root of
a subtree.
And we're going to add the traversal method in here.
So right here when I say public voyde traverse in order and I don't need to pass anything because we're
just going to start at this node and remember in order we visit the left child and then we visit the
root and then we visit the right child.
And so we're going to say if the left child is not equal to normal well we need to traverse the left
child before we want we want to traverse this node.
And so we're going to say left child dot traverse in order then we want to visit this node and so will
say system got our drop print line and we'll say data equals plus data.
And in fact I'll make this print and I'll add that to a semi-colon first.
Keep hitting L instead and I'll add a comma here so plus comma equals.
And then finally because we're doing in order traversal we want to visit the right child so we'll say
if right child is not equal to now visit the right child and that's it that's our traverse in order
for the node.
And so when we're doing this node we want to do.
We're examining this node and it's subtree and four in order we want to do the left child visit this
node and then do the right child and by left child the right child of course they can have children.
So this is saying we're going to visit the left subtree of this node first then we're going to visit
this node and that's when we print out its data and then we're going to visit the right subtree.
And so back in our tree class we need a method for this.
So a save public Voyt traverse in order
and all we want to do here is traverse the route.
So if the route isn't Knol is equal to no
then we'll traverse the route and that's it.
And so when we call this with the route we'll check whether the route has a left child and if it does
we're going to handle it's left subtree first and then we'll visit the route and then we'll handle it
right subtree.
And so keep in mind that for in order as we saw in the slides every nodes left subtree will be printed
out before we actually print out the data for the node.
And then every node right subtree.
So let's go back to our main method and call this out.
Some will say in-tree dot traverse in order and we should see these values printed out in sorted order
because remember when we traverse a tree in order we actually end up with the values coming out in sorted
order.
So let's run
it would probably be easier actually looking at that.
If I didn't do this if I just had the data and a Comesa Let's run that again.
And there we go so 15 20 22 25 26 27 29 30 and 32 and so our nodes were inserted 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and
we have 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 values and they were inserted where we expected them to be inserted and are
in order traversal is working because when we traverse in order we'll get the values in the tree in
sorted order.
OK so now that we can build a tree and we can look at what's in it we should write a method for finding
a value in the tree and we'll do that in the next video.